.\" Manpage for strans, extracted from the github page
.\" GNU Parallel manpage was used as a template - nobody understands troff!
.\" Standard preamble:
.\" ========================================================================
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.\" Set up some character translations and predefined strings.  \*(-- will
.\" give an unbreakable dash, \*(PI will give pi, \*(L" will give a left
.\" double quote, and \*(R" will give a right double quote.  \*(C+ will
.\" give a nicer C++.  Capital omega is used to do unbreakable dashes and
.\" therefore won't be available.  \*(C` and \*(C' expand to `' in nroff,
.\" nothing in troff, for use with C<>.
.tr \(*W-
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.ie n \{\
.    ds -- \(*W-
.    ds PI pi
.    if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.    if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\"  diablo 12 pitch
.    ds L" ""
.    ds R" ""
.    ds C` ""
.    ds C' ""
'br\}
.el\{\
.    ds -- \|\(em\|
.    ds PI \(*p
.    ds L" ``
.    ds R" ''
.    ds C`
.    ds C'
'br\}
.\"
.\" Escape single quotes in literal strings from groff's Unicode transform.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\"
.\" If the F register is >0, we'll generate index entries on stderr for
.\" titles (.TH), headers (.SH), subsections (.SS), items (.Ip), and index
.\" entries marked with X<> in POD.  Of course, you'll have to process the
.\" output yourself in some meaningful fashion.
.\"
.\" Avoid warning from groff about undefined register 'F'.
.de IX
..
.if !\nF .nr F 0
.if \nF>0 \{\
.    de IX
.    tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.    if !\nF==2 \{\
.        nr % 0
.        nr F 2
.    \}
.\}
.\"
.\" Accent mark definitions (@(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2).
.\" Fear.  Run.  Save yourself.  No user-serviceable parts.
.    \" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.    ds #H 0
.    ds #V .8m
.    ds #F .3m
.    ds #[ \f1
.    ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.    ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.    ds #V .6m
.    ds #F 0
.    ds #[ \&
.    ds #] \&
.\}
.    \" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.    ds ' \&
.    ds ` \&
.    ds ^ \&
.    ds , \&
.    ds ~ ~
.    ds /
.\}
.if t \{\
.    ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.    ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.    ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.    ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.    ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.    ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.\}
.    \" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.    \" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.    \" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.    ds : e
.    ds 8 ss
.    ds o a
.    ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.    ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.    ds th \o'bp'
.    ds Th \o'LP'
.    ds ae ae
.    ds Ae AE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.\" ========================================================================
.\"
.IX Title "strans 1"
.TH strans 1 "2019-09-20" "strans 0.0.5" "strans"
.\" For nroff, turn off justification.  Always turn off hyphenation; it makes
.\" way too many mistakes in technical documents.
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH "NAME"
strans \- an intuitive string manipulation utility for the shell.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
\&\fBstrans\fR -f file-with-examples [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.Sp
\&\fBstrans\fR -b pattern-to-match -a desired-transformation [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
strans (string transform) is an intuitive string manipulation utility for the shell
(primarily Unix, but should work™ cross-platform). Users do not need to know anything
about programming. All they need to do is provide strans with a set of examples.
strans will automagically learn transformation rules from these examples and apply
them to the input given on STDIN.
.SH "USAGE"
.IX Header "USAGE"
.IP "\fB-b\fR, \fB--before\fR" 4
.IX Item "-b, --before"
Required.
.Sp
An example of an input line before transformation
.IP "\fB-a\fR, \fB--after\fR" 4
.IX Item "-a, --after"
Required.
.Sp
An example of an output line after transformation
.IP "\fB-f\fR, \fB--example-file\fR" 4
.IX Item "-f, --example-file"
A file containing one or multiple transformation examples.
.Sp
The before and after transfer string are separated by => on
the same line. One line per example. before => after
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.IP "\fB--save\fR \fI<file>\fR" 4
.IX Item "--save <file>"
Save the inferred program in a file, based on the examples.
Does not execute the actual program.
.IP "\fB--load\fR \fI<file>\fR" 4
.IX Item "--load <file>"
Required if neither -a, -b or -f is used.
.Sp
Load a previously inferred program from a file.
.IP "\fB--describe\fR" 4
.IX Item "--describe"
Print-out a human-readable description of the inferred program,
based on the examples.
Do not perform any actual string transformation.
.IP "\fB--help\fR" 4
.IX Item "--help"
show usage information
.IP "\fB--version\fR" 4
.IX Item "--version"
show application version
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IX Header "EXAMPLES"
.SS "Extract ending of files"
.IX Subsection "Extract ending of files"
Assume that
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&  $ ls
\&  Document.pdf  Document2.pdf  Document.txt  Document.png
.Ve
.Sp
Now we want to get a unique list of all file endings present in the directory:
.PP
.Vb 4
\&  $ ls | strans -b Document.pdf -a pdf | sort -u
\&  pdf
\&  png
\&  txt
.Ve
.SS "Convert full names to their initials"
.IX Subsection "Convert full names to their initials"
.PP
.Vb 3
\&  $ printf "Moritz Beller\enGeorgios Gousios" | strans -b "First Last" -a "FL"
\&  MB
\&  GG
.Ve
.Sp
However, when we add a third entry with a middle name, Andy Emil Zaidman, things start to break,
as this does not appear in the initials. We can fix this by providing strans with another example.
We create a file called example-transformations
.PP
.Vb 9
\&  $ cat example-transformations
\&  First Last => FL
\&  Firstname Middlename Lastname => FML
\&  
\&  $ printf "Moritz Beller\enGeorgios Gousios\enAndy Emil Zaidman" | \e
\&    strans --example-file example-transformations
\&  MB
\&  GG
\&  AEZ
.Ve
.SH "REPORTING BUGS AND GETTING HELP"
.IX Header "REPORTING BUGS AND GETTING HELP"
Official project tracker is found here \fIhttps://github.com/Inventitech/strans\fR.
.PP
Your bug report should always include:
.IP "\(bu" 2
The error message you get (if any). If the error message is not from \fBstrans\fR you need to
show why you think \fBstrans\fR caused these.
.IP "\(bu" 2
The complete output of \fBstrans \-\-version\fR. If you are not running the latest released
version you should specify why you believe the problem is not fixed in that version.
.IP "\(bu" 2
A minimal, complete, and verifiable example (See description on http://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
\fBstrans\fR is written and maintained by "Moritz Beller" (http://www.inventitech.com).
.PP
This manpage was created by "Jaja" (jaja@mailbox.org) with information from the Github project site
and the "GNU Parallel" manpage as a template.
.SH "LICENSE"
.IX Header "LICENSE"
This Software is licenced under \fIGPL3\fR.
.PP
A copy of these licenses and third-party licenses used by some library are distributed with this
software. See \fI/usr/share/licenses/common/GPL3\fR.